---
title: "The Mouth of Chaos"
categories:
  - Campaigns
tags:
  - Mouth of Chaos
  - Adventures
---

# The Mouth of Chaos
*Game Played on [unknown date]* </br>
*GM'd by Devon*

### Synopsis:
Mercenaries were hired to investigate the Mouth of Chaos that rests outside the City of Sunward.
It seems that behind the stone doors was another plane of existence. Created through magic. The Court Mage felt it was necessary to investigate further, by sending in a few brave souls to uncover what lies behind it.

### Client:
The Court Mage of the [[Kingdom of Odilrin]]

### Mercenaries:
*Reek't - (she) amphibi-kin artificer, L1 </br>
*Erasmus Banks - (he) water genasi barbarian, L2</br>
*Nwalme - (they) shadar-kai phantom rogue, L3</br>
*Valkyrie - (he) high elf fighter, L2</br>
*Grorg - (he) bugbear ranger, L2</br>
*Edith - (she) human light cleric, L2</br>
*Juugoh - (he) human ranger, L1</br>

### Adventure Summary:
Upon entering, the party was met with a gigantic demon named Edga (he) who was surprisingly helpful and enjoyable to interact with. Edga informed the group that the door he is guarding opens for 3 hours only - after entering, they would probably be sacrificing themselves to the god of chaos, Vilithk, getting stuck in a sort of time lock as they wait potentially 1,000 years for someone else to come in, or leave with treasure before time runs out. Confused and intrigued, the party entered. 

The first chamber contained a giant crystal and a charred corpse which appeared to have been wielding a battle axe.  Upon inspection and attempted acquisition of this battle axe, we discovered the room was a powerful trap which dealt substantial electrical damage to anyone wielding a weapon. Weapons could be carried safely if stored in a sheath or pack, but having a weapon ready to use would trigger the effect. Upon further inspection, the party confirmed that the battle axe belonged to Tarmak, but the corpse was an unknown adventurer who had died some time ago.

The hallway and another area contained a total of six stone-like statues with hands extended.  The first statue encountered had two gold coins in hand, (Grorg added two additional coins to this figure) four statues in a larger chamber further along each had a horde of 10 coins in hand, and the last statue to be located had no coins.  A number of gold coins was scattered on the floor around the four statues in the larger chamber.  A large stone door stood prominently to the south of these four.  Inspection of this door triggered a spiked log trap, targeting the party members in the vicinity.  20 of these coins were collected by Reek't, who traveled to the empty handed statue and placed 10 in the hands.  A voice intoned "Your toll has been paid", Reek't passed this information to Valkyie who was standing near the statue with 4 coins in hand, and followed suit bringing the total paid to that statue to 10 coins as well.  Again, the voice intoned that a toll had been paid, following this, a mechanical sound echoed throughout the cavern, and the party members still near the door announced that the features had altered to include the presence of a key hole, which had not previously been there.  Edith, following their example, paid 10 gp to a statue that was already in possession of gold, but nothing happened.  Seeing no result from this experiment, she began to take her coins back triggering the statue to animate and attack Edith. Upon defending and countering the attack, the remaining statues animated and engaged the party. During this engagement Nwalme and Erasmus were investigating another chamber and triggered a spike trap as well as a poison gas that quickly filled the room and paralyzed Nwalme. Once the gas reached a burning brazier, it ignited, ending the paralytic effect on Nwalme, who then quickly joined the ongoing battle.  During this combat, Reek't was surrounded and incapacitated twice. Valkyrie triggered another spike trap while attempting to join the ongoing combat. Finally uniting against the once overwhelming foes, the party narrowly survived and vanquished their foes.  As the statues were defeated, they dropped enchanted weapons, which the group collected along with the remaining gold, while Edith began a ritual to be able to detect magic in an effort to avoid further traps. 

Time running short, the group (minus Edith) divided into multiple groups of 3, 2, and 1 to more efficiently explore the adjoining chambers. The chamber to the northwest contained a trough of acidic sludge hiding a number of foul creatures that promptly attacked the group of three, downing Grorg before they could be defeated. Hearing the commotion, Edith dropped her ritual and got slightly lost in the dark hallways, eventually meeting with Reek't in the trapped room previously explored by Nwalme.  The gas trap had been expended, but during Reek't's investigation of the chamber, the spike trap reset and triggered.  Reek't was able to dodge this trap barely, and recovered a vial of potion.  Reek't and Edith ventured to the north west chamber to see if they could provide further assistance to the combat in progress.

Valkyrie explored to the north east corner and located another door.  Finding it unlocked, he prodded it open, and looked inside. 

During the combat in the north west it was discovered that the creatures, when slain, would explode into an acidic cloud dealing damage to any nearby foes.  Edith managed to get to Grorg and stabilize him just before Nwalme dragged the unconscious Grorg out of the acid chamber and back into the lightning chamber as the acid monster exploded more acid damage on the party members who remained in this room as the combat was concluded. Further examination of the sludge trough revealed a powerful looking arrow and a pink stone the size of a small plate.  The party members in the hallway witnessed numerous spiders charge from the room after Valkyrie opened the door, knocking Valkyrie off his feet and incapacitating him, then striking Juugoh and Nwalme with numerous poison attacks. Erasmus became incapacitated in the lightning room, Edith used a berry to revive him, and then he was knocked out defending the two of them against the spiders. Edith cast spare the dying on him, Grorg miraculously regained his vigor and continued to decimate the spiders in the hallway. Reek't moved to the exit in an attempt to find a position to guard the exit and prevent it from being overwhelmed by the arachnid horde before the surviving party members could escape, and was able to turn and defeat a spider before it could strike down Edith who was preoccupied with administering medical aid to stabilize Erasmus. As the last of the foes fell, and the limited time running dangerously low, Edith exited to the hallway where she could see an unconscious but stable Nwalme and Juugoh and began dragging Nwalme to the door while Grorg ran forward, found Valkyrie dead and beyond the ministrations that we could minister, and continued onward to explore the north east chamber so recently occupied by giant spiders.  His exploration revealed a chest and a key, as well as yet another spike trap. With his renewed vigor, he was able to survive the trap and exited the room. He quickly gathered up Valkyrie's weapons, backpack, and coin purse and then, per Edith's request for help, Grorg helped carry the unconscious Juugoh to the exit.

Once the crew had exited the timed chamber, Edga greeted everyone, acknowledged the sacrifice of Valkyrie and expressed some surprise at seeing so many survivors. He congratulated the party on the treasure received, and invited everyone back in one month's time before bidding the party farewell and wishing them well. Before they left, Edith asked again about Tarmak and Edga gave her a needle and said he had won it off his buddy Dave who said he had seen a blue-skinned chap with it. As a parting comment, Reek't asked if there was anything that Edga would like from the outside world when the party returned, as his existence as guardian of a time locked dungeon, unvisited for centuries, seemed like it may grow tedious. Edga thanked them for the concern and mentioned that a lizard would be a welcome diversion. The party agreed to bring him back his request and maybe some books on their next trip, before exiting the chamber. Grorg stalled to exit the chamber last, and seemed to age considerably once he emerged from the entryway with a semi-conscious Juugoh.<br />

### Outcome:
The door led to a poly-dimensional dungeon of Vilithk which changes upon each admittance, holds the remaining creatures that didn't get out before their time ran out, demons, monsters, and treasures of all sorts, all of which are meant to tempt hapless souls into Vilithk's grasp. Valkyrie did not survive, Nwalme and Juugoh were carried out unconscious, all of the healing berries were used, and (META) Grorg has made some kind of deal with Vilithk.

### Adventure Rewards:
* 5gp per survivor from the WC </br>
* 68gp </br>
* +1 maul </br>
* +1 battle axe </br>
* +1 longsword </br>
* +1 shortsword </br>
* +1 dagger </br>
* +3 iron arrow (single use) </br>
* 1 sending stone </br>
* Tarmak's battle axe </br>
* a man-made replica of the needle of fates </br>
* Potion of Reduce </br>
* Advancement to level 2 for Juugoh and Reek't </br>
